I am a staunch advocate of the God-given right to self-defense — against all enemies, both foreign and domestic. Which means I don't just believe in the Second Amendment, but the divine precedent that inspired our Founding Fathers to include it in our Constitution's Bill of Rights in the first place. I also have a concealed-carry permit in my state, as does my wife.

However, in the wake of another unspeakable massacre at one of our schools, I agree it's time for a national conversation about the Second Amendment, gun violence, gun safety, protecting our children and self-defense. Are there things we could be doing, but we're not, that would protect life without putting lives at risk by infringing on Americans' right to defend themselves?

I also have to wonder whether we're ready for such a conversation.

The conventional wisdom is there are two Americas, because we don't agree on anything and Americans argue too much. I agree there are two Americas, but it's not because we're arguing too much. It's because we're really not arguing at all.

More: Survivor: I will never be OK until we stop school shootings

More: Let's mourn our losses, celebrate our children before turning Florida shooting political

We're hiding, surrounding ourselves with almost exclusively the like-minded. Seeking news sources that give us confirmation instead of information. Meanwhile, the number of news sources remaining that are actually gathering news and not furthering narratives is dwindling.

After working ourselves into a partisan lather, we hop on social media to troll one another with venom. All the while assuming the worst possible motivations for anyone who might dare have a slightly different take.

This persistent noise pollution isn't a debate as much as it's cultural rat poison. Now what Sens. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, and Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., have been doing recently on CNN — that's a real debate.

These debates have been a ratings smash. Perhaps that's because these are two men who represent the "true believer" wings of their respective parties, and with that comes clarity regarding their ideas and a mutual respect. Even if they don't agree on much in the end.

It's time for CNN to extend this duo another invite — this time to debate America's gun laws. Maybe this way, we can get answers to legitimate questions that each side of the debate has. Such as these:

►How is it possible the Broward County shooter passed a background check to legally purchase firearms, yet he was banned from local school grounds as a potential threat?

►How come stories of private gun ownership actually saving lives rarely get sustained national attention?

►Should our schools be secured like our airports?

I'm no longer going to criticize those who seek to politicize gun tragedies, because I'm guilty of the same when it comes to immigration. I'm one of those who points out our lax immigration policies when an illegal immigrant kills cops or pro football players, or permit potential terrorists to enter our country.

There is no moral difference in the tragedies being politicized. The only difference is the politics. Politics is how we put our ethics into policy. Thus it's only natural to seek policy solutions when our ethics are rightfully appalled at the body count.

Of course, the difference between the two issues is that the Constitution exclusively protects the rights of Americans. It's not the planetary Constitution. Therefore, when someone knowingly and willfully enters our country illegally, he is not under the jurisdiction of our Constitution but in violation of it.

More: On gun control, there's nothing and everything left to say: Jill Lawrence

POLICING THE USA: A look at race, justice, media

On the other hand, when an American lawfully purchases a firearm, he is fulfilling a key promise of the Constitution.

That doesn't mean there aren't any restrictions on private gun ownership acceptable under the Second Amendment. For example, I know of no mainstream gun advocate lobbying to undo the ban on private machine gun ownership President Reagan signed into law in 1986.

Even so, those for more gun control should know why many gun owners believe you're really for confiscation. All too often, those publicly calling for gun control are ignorant of what our laws are, what an assault rifle is, the general terminology, etc. 

Like on Wednesday a guest on MSNBC demanded every state have the same strict gun laws Connecticut has, except those strict laws wouldn't prevent many of the mas shootings that have occurred around the country.

After the Las Vegas mass shooting last fall, I did hit a national cable news network to discuss it. The host was demanding something be done so it doesn't happen again. When I asked her what her suggestions were, she instantly fell silent for a moment before mentioning action on bump stocks (which I agreed with).

We're all emotional when our collective hearts are broken as the body bags are hauled away. That's our humanity showing. But logic and reason are part of our humanity as well. If you want gun owners to listen to what you believe are reasonable ideas and you're not just a gun grabber, be informed and reasonable.

Cruz and Sanders have already proved they can pull that off. Let's see them do it again. 